Ocean environments are written in C. It's very simple C. Like first 2 weeks of an intro systems course C. Follow this guide and then copy Squared (single-agent) or Target (multi-agent) to use as templates for your own environment. Both have detailed comments that walk you through the requirements. Find/replace the demo name with your environment name.

The .h file contains core environment logic. The .c file contains a standalone demo. Only the .h file is compiled when you run puffer build env_name. The standalone is compiled with puffer build env_name --local or --fast for the optimized build. Observations, actions, rewards, and terminals are each allocated as big chunks of memory that are contiguous across all (usually thousands) of environment instances.

Create a .ini file in the config/ directory with the settings for your environment. Copy the one for Squared or Target as a starting point. Your environment is now available for training just like any other Ocean environment:

puffer build env_name
puffer train env_name

Use the --local compilation option for testing while writing your environment. It enables address sanitizer and will catch most indexing and overflow bugs. Here's a checklist of common bugs if your env is not training:

    Zero or incorrect observations/actions: Ensure you have defined your observation and action metadata (space/size/type) correctly in your binding.c. Note that observation buffers are not zeroed for you every step, so if you are only writing information to specific indicies (i.e. one-hots), be sure you are zeroing them. One memset is usually the quickest.
    NaN losses: If your losses NaN after 1 epoch, your environment almost certainly has data corruption. You are writing to memory that does not match the obs/action sizes you have defined, or you have defined them using the wrong types. If your losses NaN after a longer time, it may be hyperparameters.
    Incorrect or missing resets: Your environment should handle its own resets internally. For envs that never reset, it is often useful to respawn agents if they are stuck (e.g. no reward for 500 steps). If every rollout has the same number of timesteps, you should stagger your environments on init.
    Not zeroing observations: If you are writing over your observation buffers but only write to some elements each step, If you don't zero out rewards, they will retain their value from the previous step. Ditto for terminals. Zero them at the start of c_step to be safe. A single memset will do it for multiagent envs. If you are not setting every element of every obs (i.e. one-hots), make sure to clear those too.
    Manually inspect data scale: You want observations and rewards to be roughly in the range of -1 to 1. 0 to 1 is fine. -5 to 5 is kind of fine. Randomly having one obs with magnitude 1000 is not.
    Incorrect binding args: Ensure your binding sets the same args as your .c file. Call your init function if you have one. 